update authorization for TCP task for v1beta1 policy (#5196)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/tasks/security/authz-tcp/index.md

---

> title: Authorization for TCP protocol

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Authorization for TCP
```

> description: Shows how to set up role-based access control for TCP protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Shows how to set up role-based access control for TCP traffic.
```

weight: 10
keywords: [security,access-control,rbac,tcp,authorization]
---

This task covers the activities you might need to perform to set up Istio authorization for

> TCP protocol in an Istio mesh. You can learn more about the Istio authorization in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TCP traffic in an Istio mesh. You can learn more about the Istio authorization in the
```

When you refresh the page, the app shows different versions of reviews in the product page.
The app presents the reviews in a round robin style: red stars, black stars, or no stars.

## Installing and configuring a TCP workload

By default, the [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) example application only includes HTTP protocol.

> To show how Istio handles the authorization of TCP protocol, we must update the application to use a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To show how Istio handles the authorization of TCP traffic, we must update the application to use a
```

> TCP protocol. Follow this procedure to deploy the Bookinfo example app and update its `ratings` workload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TCP. Follow this procedure to deploy the Bookinfo example app and update its `ratings` workload
```

to the `v2` version, which talks to a MongoDB backend using TCP.

> 1. Install `v2` of the `ratings` workload with service account `bookinfo-ratings-v2`:

Reviewer 2: You already described this information in the paragraph above. This is not a step, it is an introduction to a list of other steps, since achieving this task takes more than one command or there is more than one set of commands to do it.

Author: What is the suggestion here?

Reviewer 2: I see you already split the explanation from the step, which was the original issue.
This step just needs some reordering:
```suggestion
1. Install `v2` of the `ratings` workload with the `bookinfo-ratings-v2` service account:
```

When you refresh the page, the app shows different versions of reviews in the product page.
The app presents the reviews in a round robin style: red stars, black stars, or no stars.

{{< tip >}}

> If you don't see the expected output in the browser following the task, retry in a few seconds

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you don't see the expected output in the browser as you follow the task, retry in a few seconds
```

> as there may be some delays due to caching and other propagation overhead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
because some delay is possible due to caching and other propagation overhead.
```

{{< /tip >}}

## Installing and configuring a TCP workload

By default, the [Bookinfo](/docs/examples/bookinfo/) example application only uses the HTTP protocol.
To showcase the authorization of TCP traffic, you must update the application to use TCP.

> Follow these steps to deploy Bookinfo and update the `ratings` workload to the `v2` version,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following steps deploy the Bookinfo application and update its `ratings` workload to the `v2` version,
```

> which talks to a MongoDB backend using TCP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
which talks to a MongoDB backend using TCP:
```

1. Install `v2` of the `ratings` workload with service account `bookinfo-ratings-v2`:

    {{< tabset cookie-name="sidecar" >}}

>     {{< tab name="Automatic sidecar injection enabled" cookie-value="auto" >}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    {{< tab name="With automatic sidecar injection" cookie-value="auto" >}}
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo-ratings-v2.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< /tab >}}

>     {{< tab name="Manual sidecar injection" cookie-value="manual" >}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    {{< tab name="With manual sidecar injection" cookie-value="manual" >}}
```

    {{< /text >}}

    {{< /tab >}}

    {{< /tabset >}}

1. Go to the Bookinfo product page at `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`.

1. Verify that the **Book Reviews** section shows the reviews.

    With the MongoDB workload deployed and before we configure authorization to only allow authorized requests,
    we need to apply a default `deny-all` policy for the workload to ensure that all requests to the MongoDB
    workload are denied by default.

1. Apply a default `deny-all` policy for the MongoDB workload:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
    kind: AuthorizationPolicy
    metadata:
      name: deny-all
    spec:
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app: mongodb
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

    Point your browser at the Bookinfo `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`).  You should see:

    * The **Book Details** section on the lower left of the page includes book type, number of pages, publisher, etc.
    * The **Book Reviews** section on the lower right of the page includes an error message **"Ratings service is
      currently unavailable"**.

>     After configuring all requests be denied by default, we need to create a `bookinfo-ratings-v2`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    After configuring that all requests be denied by default, we need to create a `bookinfo-ratings-v2`
```

    On the product page, you can see an error message on the **Book Reviews** section.
    The message reads: **"Ratings service is currently unavailable."**. The message appears because we
    now use the `v2` subset of the `ratings` workload but we haven't deployed the MongoDB workload.

1. Deploy the MongoDB workload:

    {{< tabset cookie-name="sidecar" >}}

    {{< tab name="With automatic sidecar injection" cookie-value="auto" >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo-db.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< /tab >}}

    {{< tab name="With manual sidecar injection" cookie-value="manual" >}}

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f @samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo-db.yaml@)
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< /tab >}}

    {{< /tabset >}}

1. Go to the Bookinfo product page at `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`.

1. Verify that the **Book Reviews** section shows the reviews.

> 1. Apply a default `deny-all` policy for the MongoDB workload:

Reviewer 2: This line should come right before the command. The explanation (lines 115-117) should come before it.

Author: See my response in https://github.com/istio/istio.io/pull/5196/files#r340320873, if we do so, the page looks just strange because the text will look like they belong the previous numbered item, which is incorrect.

workload are issued using the `cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-ratings-v2` service account.

Enforce workload-level access control for TCP traffic coming from the
`cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-ratings-v2` service account:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: bookinfo-ratings-v2
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: mongodb
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        principals: ["cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-ratings-v2"]
    to:
    - operation:
        ports: ["27017"]
EOF
{{< /text >}}

Point your browser at the Bookinfo `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`),
you should see now the following sections working as intended:

* **Book Details** on the lower left side, which includes: book type, number of pages, publisher, etc.
* **Book Reviews** on the lower right side, which includes: red stars.

**Congratulations!** You successfully deployed a workload communicating over TCP traffic and applied
both a mesh-level and a workload-level authorization policy to enforce access control for the requests.

## Cleanup

> * Remove Istio authorization policy configuration:

Reviewer 2: Please use a numbered list to let readers know the correct order to run these clean up instructions.

Author: The order doesn't matter here.

    On the product page, you can see an error message on the **Book Reviews** section.
    The message reads: **"Ratings service is currently unavailable."**. The message appears because we

>     switched to use the `v2` subset of the `ratings` workload without deploying the MongoDB workload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    now use the `v2` subset of the `ratings` workload but we haven't deployed the MongoDB workload.
```

1. Deploy the MongoDB workload:

    {{< tabset cookie-name="sidecar" >}}

>     {{< tab name="Automatic sidecar injection enabled" cookie-value="auto" >}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    {{< tab name="With automatic sidecar injection" cookie-value="auto" >}}
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo-db.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< /tab >}}

>     {{< tab name="Manual sidecar injection" cookie-value="manual" >}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    {{< tab name="With manual sidecar injection" cookie-value="manual" >}}
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f @samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo-db.yaml@)
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< /tab >}}

    {{< /tabset >}}

1. Go to the Bookinfo product page at `http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`.

1. Verify that the **Book Reviews** section shows the reviews.

> ## Applying a default `deny-all` policy

Reviewer 3: Applying a default `deny-all` policy on the workload.

> ## Applying a default `deny-all` policy on the workload

Reviewer 2: Why is this a heading? The content still falls under "Installing and configuring a TCP workload"
Do not use headings to emphasize text or steps. Headings provide content structure and categorization, not emphasis. You can always add explanatory text to a list of steps, you just need to indent it accordingly. Applying the `deny-all` policy is not an independent procedure needing its own section. It is a step towards your stated goal and should be handled accordingly in the text to avoid confusing readers.

```suggestion
   With the MongoDB workload deployed and before we configure authentication to only allow authorized requests,
   we need to apply a default `deny-all` policy for the workload to ensure that all requests to the MongoDB
   workload are denied by default. 
```

> Run the following command to apply a default `deny-all` policy for the MongoDB workload, the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Apply a default `deny-all` policy for the MongoDB workload:
```

command creates a `deny-all` policy that denies all requests to the MongoDB workload:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF

> apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1

Reviewer 2: Why is this no longer using a sample from the repo?
If the sample needs to be changed for the command to work, please modify the sample.
If a new sample is needed, please add the new sample and modify the reference.

Author: There are three reasons here: 1) simplify the task page so that user could see what they are applying right in the command, 2) simplify the maintenance so that we don't need to maintain the copy in a different repo, all needed yaml are self-included in the task page, 3) align with the same convention that we have been using in the authentication task page.

kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: deny-all
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: mongodb
EOF
{{< /text >}}

> Point your browser at the Bookinfo `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`).  You should see:

Reviewer 2: Please verify that this text is properly indented to ensure the numbered list remains unbroken throughout.

1. Verify that the **Book Reviews** section shows the reviews.

## Applying a default `deny-all` policy

Run the following command to apply a default `deny-all` policy for the MongoDB workload:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: deny-all
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: mongodb
EOF
{{< /text >}}

> The command creates a `deny-all` policy that selects the MongoDB workload and will deny all requests because

Reviewer 2: Add the information before the command to ensure readers know what will happen before they run the command.
This avoids readers exposing or restricting workloads without knowing they did so.
It is not clear from the text what are the denied requests. Those coming from the MongoDB workload or those going to the MongoDB workload. Please rewrite to ensure that information is clear.

it doesn't have any rules.

Point your browser at the Bookinfo `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`).  You should see:

* The **Book Details** section on the lower left of the page includes book type, number of pages, publisher, etc.
* The **Book Reviews** section on the lower right of the page includes an error message **"Ratings service is
  currently unavailable"**.

{{< tip >}}
There may be some delays due to caching and other propagation overhead.
{{< /tip >}}

> ## Enforcing access control on TCP workload

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Enforce workload-level access control for TCP traffic
```

> Now let's set up workload-level access control using Istio authorization to allow `v2` of `ratings`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following command sets up workload-level access control to allow the `v2` version of the `ratings` workload
```

to access the MongoDB workload.

> Run the following command to apply the authorization policy:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: bookinfo-ratings-v2
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: mongodb
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        principals: ["cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-ratings-v2"]
    to:
    - operation:
        ports: ["27017"]
EOF
{{< /text >}}

> The command creates a `bookinfo-ratings-v2` policy that selects the MongoDB workload and grants the access at port

Reviewer 2: Please either include this detailed information before the command, merge it with the more general description above, or remove the detailed version here. I recommend adding the details here to the description above.

* The **Book Reviews** section on the lower right of the page includes an error message **"Ratings service is
  currently unavailable"**.

> ## Enforce workload-level access control for TCP traffic

Reviewer 2: Please see my comment and suggestions regarding the previous heading. The suggestion below provides the context for the command just indented properly to ensure the numbered list remains unbroken and before the command to give readers the needed context to decide whether or not they want to run the command. Please follow this pattern in this and all other tasks.
 ```suggestion
    After configuring all requests be denied by default, we need to create a `bookinfo-ratings-v2` policy that lets
    requests coming from the `cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-ratings-v2` service account through to the MongoDB
    workload at port `27017`. We grant access to the service account, because requests coming from the `ratings-v2`
    workload are issued using the `cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-ratings-v2` service account. 
```

Author: Are you suggesting to remove the heading `## Enforce workload-level access control for TCP traffic`? This makes the page looks really weird, the only headings in the page are `Before you begin`. `Installing and configuring a TCP workload` and `Cleanup`.

Also, I don't think the indentation is correct, that will make the text belong to the previous numbered item on the page.

Reviewer 2: Yes, that is the idea. You want the entire procedure to be a single flow. Why do you want to have it broken up into single step sections? Interrupting the flow of the procedure with a heading takes readers from a "Do" mindset to a "Understand" mindset. You want to avoid forcing readers to context switch unless it is significant. Enforcing the workload-level access control is part of the overarching task: Installing and configuring authentication for a TCP workload. The text indentation is needed to ensure that the numbers continue uninterrupted throughout.

Author: I don't think this is a good idea. That means we also have to remove other headings like `Before you begin`, `Installing and configuring a TCP workload` and `Cleanup`. Each section has its own responsibility and these are all about "Do", if the user want to learn the concept, they go to the concept page instead.

`Installing and configuring authentication for a TCP workload` is one step in the task to prepare for the environment, `Enforcing the workload-level access control` is not part of it.

The text indentation could bring more confusion because it groups the contents with the **previous** numbered item. If you look at the page, it's very strange as it seems we are putting non related descriptions in the numbered item because these should go to under the numbered item instead of before it.

> The command creates a `bookinfo-ratings-v2` policy that grants the access to the MongoDB workload

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> at port 27017 for `cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-ratings-v2` service account

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> that represents the `ratings-v2` workload:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Enforce workload-level access control for TCP traffic coming from the `cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-ratings-v2` service account:
```

{{< text bash >}}

> $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF

Reviewer 2: Please refer to samples in the the repo, see my previous comment on the topic for alternatives.

Author: Please see my reply in previous comment.

Reviewer 2: @yangminzhu I can't find the reply on a previous comment. What is the issue? Is it that we are on a code freeze and thus you are unable to update the sample? If that is the case, it would suffice if you file an issue to make sure that the sample gets updated as soon as the code freeze is lifted and the document updated.

Author: There are 3 reasons:
1) Allow users to see the policy content when running the command
2) Reduce maintenance burden for consolidating all related yamls in the same task page instead of separating it in a different repo.
3) Align with the existing convention in authentication task page.

With this change, we don't need to worry about the code freeze or any other issues in istio repo at all.

apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: bookinfo-ratings-v2
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: mongodb
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        principals: ["cluster.local/ns/default/sa/bookinfo-ratings-v2"]
    to:
    - operation:
        ports: ["27017"]
EOF
{{< /text >}}

> Point your browser at the Bookinfo `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`). You should see the following sections:

Reviewer 2: This is the end of a complex task on a difficult and delicate topic. Please give our readers some encouragement and congratulate them on their success. My suggestion attempts to do so:
```suggestion
**Congratulations!**
When you point your browser at the Bookinfo `productpage` (`http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage`), you should see now the following sections working as intended:
```

* **Book Details** on the lower left side, which includes: book type, number of pages, publisher, etc.
* **Book Reviews** on the lower right side, which includes: red stars.

> 

Reviewer 2: It is very important to summarize the results readers should get at the end. This approach provides readers a clear and easy way to measure their success. Folks only skimming through the task will also see the intended results at the end and they become encouraged to run the steps.

```suggestion

You successfully deployed a workload communicating over TCP traffic and applied both a mesh-level and a workload-level authentication policy to enforce access control for the requests.

```

## Cleanup

> *   Remove Istio authorization policy configuration:

Reviewer 2: This is not the only step needed to return the deployment to the state before the task. Please point readers to the instructions to remove a Bookinfo deployment too.
